There are a few common strategies you can use in chess.

The first is centre control.
Controlling the centre is important in early games
as it offers greater mobility and flexibility.

Second is piece development.
During the opening, it's critical to move your pieces (knights, bishops, and rooks).
from their initial positions to active squares,
Ideally in the board's centre.

It is recommended to safeguard your king by casting
as it gets the king out of the middle, hiding it on the side.

Tactical opportunities are very useful in chess.
as it limits the opponent's movement to give you the edge.

Examples are forks, a tactic where you attack multiple pieces at the same time;

Let's try it out! Fork both of the opponent's rooks!
Well done! The knight is able to attack both rooks,
but it is still out of their range.
Even if the knight is captured later by the rook, 
it results in a net positive piece value for you!

Forks that are forceful are the most lethal.
Those forks typically include an assault on the opposing king and pose an unavoidable danger.

Let's try it out! Create a fork that checks the king.
Since the White king is in check, and it's only way to avoid check is to move to another square,
the rook therefore cannot be saved.

Another strategy are pins. 
A strategy where a defensive piece cannot move away from the line of an attacking piece
without exposing a more valuable defending piece.
Hence, restricting the movement of an opponent’s piece.

Let's try it out! Pin the opposing knight.
Great! This is a relative pin, where moving the pinned piece in this situation is not illegal,
however it is undesirable.
Moving the knight is not illegal for White, but it would lead to its queen being captured.

The most effective application of this strategy is an absolute pin.
It occurs when a piece defends the king from attack.
The pinned piece cannot move since it is forbidden to make a move that would checkmate your king.

Let's try it out! Pin the opposing knight.
Nice! The knight has no legal moves, leaving the king even more vulnerable to attacks

Lastly, skewers. A strategy similar to pins.
In a skewer, however, the more valuable piece is the one directly under attack,
while the less valuable piece is behind it.

Let's try it out! Create a skewer to gain piece advantage!
Awesome! Now the king has no choice but move to avoid check, 
Leaving its queen being captured.
